OBSDOCS-1489: Prepare the metrics sections for transition (#85116)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/monitoring-querying-metrics-for-user-defined-projects-with-mon-dashboard.adoc

// * virt/support/virt-prometheus-queries.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

> [id="querying-metrics-for-user-defined-projects-with-mon-dashboard_{context}"]
> // The following section will be included in the developer section, hence there is no need to include "developer" in the title
> = Querying metrics for user-defined projects with the {product-title} web console

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[id="querying-metrics-for-user-defined-projects-with-mon-dashboard_{context}"]
= Querying metrics for user-defined projects with the {product-title} web console
// The following section will be included in the developer section, hence there is no need to include "developer" in the title
```

> The {product-title} metrics query browser enables you to run Prometheus Query Language (PromQL) queries to examine metrics visualized on a plot. This functionality provides information about any user-defined workloads that you are monitoring.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the {product-title} metrics query browser to run Prometheus Query Language (PromQL) queries to examine metrics visualized on a plot. This functionality provides information about any user-defined workloads that you are monitoring.
```

.Procedure

. In the *Developer* perspective of the {product-title} web console, go to *Observe* -> *Metrics*.

. Select the project that you want to view metrics for from the *Project:* list.

> . Select a query from the *Select query* list, or create a custom PromQL query based on the selected query by clicking *Show PromQL*. The metrics from the queries are visualized on the plot.

Author: Hello, thank you for the information! I will have to raise a different PR for this, because the changes in this PR will not go into the 4.17 branch. So I will raise a new Jira for this

> . Select a query from the *Select query* list, or create a custom PromQL query based on the selected query by clicking *Show PromQL*. The metrics from the queries are visualized on the plot.

Author: I was wondering why this went under the radar, but I see it is because it was worked on by a different team, so thank you very much for bringing this to my attention!

> . Select a query from the *Select query* list, or create a custom PromQL query based on the selected query by clicking *Show PromQL*. The metrics from the queries are visualized on the plot.

Author: Jira for tracking is here: https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OBSDOCS-1527

> . Select a query from the *Select query* list, or create a custom PromQL query based on the selected query by clicking *Show PromQL*. The metrics from the queries are visualized on the plot.

Reviewer 2: back port to 4.17 is fine, the developer UI change is since 4.17

+
[NOTE]
====

> In the *Developer* perspective, you can only run one query at a time.

Reviewer 2: see above picture, 4.17+ supports run multiple queries

Author: Yes, thank you for the information, I will note it in that new Jira I am creating for this :+1:

====

. Explore the visualized metrics by performing any of the following actions:
+
|===
|Option |Description

|Zoom into the plot and change the time range.
a|Perform one of the following actions:

* Visually select the time range by clicking and dragging on the plot horizontally.
* Use the menu to select the time range.

|Reset the time range. |Click *Reset zoom*.

> |Display outputs for all queries at a specific point in time. |Hover over the plot at the wanted point. The query outputs appear in a pop-up box.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Display outputs for all queries at a specific point in time. |Hover over the plot at the point you are interested in. The query outputs appear in a pop-up box.
```
